Gameboy Reaction Tester
Cameron Smith
April 24 2020

Reaction Tester for Nintendo Gameboy is a simple reaction tester built to run on a Nintendo Gameboy with the help of a Beaglebone Black Linux board. It is built using the real time operating system RIOS, which I modifed to work with the Nintendo Gameboy.

To communicate with the Beaglebone Black, I used a Gameboy Link Cable. These link cables were primarily used to connect Gameboys together using a proprietary port. Since the Beaglebone does not have this port, I cut open the cable and tested the bits that were running down on each wire. Once I determined what data was being sent on which wire, I plugged the wires into the beaglebone and wrote a python script to read the data and send data back to the Gameboy.

Running the reaction tester python script, it will send a random value between 0-7 to the Gameboy. The Gameboy will interpret that value as an instruction for the player to press a button. The Gameboy will wait a random amount of time (between 2-10 seconds) and prompt the user to press the button. After the player presses the button, the Gameboy will send the reaction time to the Beaglebone, where it will display the reaction time on the terminal.

Video Demonstartions:
-----------------------------------------
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jOpj3uD2w0o
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=c0xnxYCXXe8
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=KJc5xkmffTM


The directory structure is as follows:
-----------------------------------------
build - object files and etc when compiling to a Gameboy binary

graphics - the graphics used for the reaction tester program

include - .h files

pythonScripts - the python scripts used on the Beaglebone Black to send instructions 
to the gameboy and receive the reaction time back

source - source files


The file gbReact.gb is the binary that the Gameboy will run. To run this on a real Gameboy, you will need a flash cart 
for the Gameboy. The one I used is called EZ-FLASH Junior. You can also run this on a Gameboy emulator, but you won't
be able to connect it with a Beaglebone Black to my knowledge. 

Compilation:
--------------------------------------
To compile, simply run make.bat. Batch files are a Windows script file, as I did this mostly in Windows.
I tried making a makefile to compile on Linux, but it was giving me a unique error that I wasn't 
able to solve. Thus if you want to compile this on Linux, you must have wine installed.

If you are on Linux and have wine installed, you can compile the code into a Gameboy binary by running the command:
wine cmd < make.bat

When compiled, it will produce a .gb file. A .gb file is a Gameboy binary.

When compiling, Windows has an error where the batch file doesn’t like the length of where a compiler is located. 
If you encounter that issue, move the folder containing all the files to a higher directory closer to the root,
then it should be able to compile successfully.



